---
title: "Case Study: Expert Grup"
layout: osi
---

# Expert Grup

<th class="inner">Project: Budgetstories, Moldova</th>

In mid 2012, Expert Grup began to work to make sense of huge budget
datasets. In November 2012, while finalizing the project concept,
members of the organising team took part in the [Balkan Budget
Workshop](http://openspending.org/blog/2012/11/26/Sarajevo-Workshop-Writeup.html) organised by the OpenSpending team.

About the team: The core BudgetStories.md team at the Expert-Grup
consists of 3 core staff members: the project director, one project
communication and analytical expert, with one additional analytic expert
as support. The implementation was made with an external web design
company who executed the website based on input from the team. The web
company had a total of 5 people in total working on BudgetStories.md (2
designers, 2 developers and 1 project manager)

Expert Grup has introduced several projects using open budget and
spending data. The main challenges pointed out have related around
accessing data, cleaning the data (using Excel), and managing the data
visualisation work, which was done by an an external web agency. Most of
the needed data was available to the public on
[data.gov.md](http://data.gov.md/) and in the World Banks [BOOST data
tool](http://www.mf.gov.md/ro/BOOST/), and government agencies were open
to provide direct requests for data requested in a timely manner. The
data was analysed with Excel. During the research Expert Grup used the
Spending Data Handbook, the Open Data Handbook and the Data Journalism
Handbook as resources:

> “It was really helpful to learn about data formats. It is the equivalent
> of a data literacy 101 class.”

## Technical challenges

Presenting the data: “It is still a challenge for us to make
visualizations meaningful. We plan to improve with every infographic we
publish.” Expert Grup is planning to work more on developing their
presentations of their data. Most of their visualisations have been
developed by a web agency based on the directions from Expert Grup. One
exception is the visualisation of the [Moldava
budget](http://www.budgetstories.md/bugetul-2013/), which was done with
OpenSpending treemaps by Expert Grup.

In the future Expert Grup wil be looking to expand their work: “There is
still a lot of work to be done. We have until now published three data
visualizations.”

So far their portfolio include excellent examples such as:

1.  The [Budget
    calendar](http://www.budgetstories.md/anul-bugetar-2013/) enabling
    citizens to track and learn about the budget approval process for
    2012 - 2014 as an interactive module, including the documents which
    need to be published at each stage of the budget process.
2.  An OpenSpending budget tree map added in order to provide a
    [meaningful visualisation of the annual
    proposal](http://www.budgetstories.md/afla-cat-ne-a-costat-parlamentul-in-2012/)
3.  A visualisation of the [agricultural subsidy
    program](http://www.budgetstories.md/subventiile-pentru-agricultura-in-2012-pentru-ce-cui-si-unde-au-fost-alocate/).

## Community challenges

Engaging CSOs in spending data: According to Expert Grup civil society
(NGOs, journalists and universities) has until now shown little
knowledge or interest in the existence of open data. The goal has
therefore been to engage with and educate journalists and policy makers.
The main site was launched in February and enabled for the first time
journalists access to cleaned data sets and visualisations, and
encouraging their republishing and reuse in the public. The aim would be
to gain increased public attention to inefficiencies identified in
government spending and establish connections to more stakeholders. The
results of the outreach are still being assessed.

Source: [Guest blog post on
OpenSpending](http://openspending.org/blog/2013/02/28/Budget-Stories.html) 

