---
title: "Case Study: Farmsubsidy.org"
layout: osi
---

# Farmsubsidy.org

The lack of transparency of farm subsidy payments is due to a decision
by the European Court of Justice (ECJ) in 2010, which decided that
individual farmers should have the right to privacy when receiving funds
from the CAP.

Due to this decision by the ECJ, there is currently little room for
legislative improvements to transparency within the CAP. The ECJ
decision has de facto enabled governments to release data of [highly
varying quality, granularity and
consistency](http://farmsubsidy.org/news/features/2012-data-harvest/).
The data from Farm Subsidy as well as the excellent capacity within the
core team resulted in substantial improvements in EU spending journalism
from 2006. A selection of the news stories generated from farm subsidy
data is available [here](http://farmsubsidy.openspending.org/news/). The
visualisation below documents that Farm Subsidy also operated a thorough
index rating the spending transparency across the EU member states,
which served as an important guideline before transactional spending had
yet become a topic of governmental attention.

![FarmSubsidy](http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3780/8895739487_b03be6f0fa.jpg)

<small>Source: Farm Subsidy. Along with the annual retrieval of farm subsidy
payments, Farm Subsidy produced a comprehensive index on farm subsidy
spending transparency.</small>

Early 2013 Farm Subsidy approached OpenSpending suggesting the two
projects to  collaborate around the hosting of the site as well as the
annual data collection. In May OpenSpending officially began hosting the
site at
[farmsubsidy.openspending.org](http://farmsubsidy.openspending.org).

At the annual [DataHarvest
2013](http://www.journalismfund.eu/dataharvest13) the prospects for
journalism was covered at several sessions discussing:

1.  How the experiences gained in accessing farm subsidy data can be
    utilised for accessing other spending data
2.  How journalism on farm subsidy spending can expand its focus as well
    as find more local use
